Hello, everyone.
Welcome to iOS Performance in Depth.
My name is Dan Crosby.
I'm an engineer on the
iOS performance team.
This talk is going to be kind of a grab
bag of different performance topics
that we found that even more advanced
developers often either are not aware
of or sometimes have trouble with.
So I'm going to be talking about
Grand Central Dispatch and performance,
ways you can use GCD to speed
up the performance of your app,
and also using memory efficiently on iOS.
And then I'll be joined by my teammate,
Ben Nham,
who's going to be talking about view
and animation performance in iOS.
So let's dive right in.
So Grand Central Dispatch is a
set of APIs that was introduced
in Mac OS 10.6 and iOS 4 to help
you use multiple threads in your
applications more effectively.
Now, many developers hear multithreading,
and they think, well,
my application's not CPU-intensive,
or it is CPU-intensive,
but it's not easy to make concurrent.
And so they think this
doesn't apply to them.
But in fact,
GCD can help the performance of
almost any application on our system.
It's also relatively simple to code,
and it's cheap at runtime,
so you should look into it.
There are a few gotchas,
performance-related gotchas
associated with GCD that I'm
going to talk about as well.
But this is not going to be a complete
introduction to Grand Central Dispatch.
It's a really big topic.
So I encourage you to
review the video of,
for instance, yesterday's blocks in
Grand Central Dispatch in practice,
or look, of course,
at the online documentation.
So why would you want to consider
using GCD in your application?
Well, the most important reason is to
keep work off of the main thread.
The main thread in both iOS
and Mac OS X is where most of
the user interaction happens.
So, anytime you're drawing to
the screen or committing an
animation to the render server,
or responding to touch
events from the user,
this all has to happen
on the main thread.
So, if that's blocked with other work,
your animations won't be smooth,
and your application won't
feel responsive to the user.
And it's particularly important
if you've got anything that
might block for a long time,
because there's a system
on iOS called Watchdog,
which will actually terminate
your application if it remains
unresponsive for too long.
So, you definitely want to avoid that.
When I say work off the main thread,
I don't just mean intensive CPU work.
Anything that takes a long time,
like a potentially expensive
file system or network operation,
can also block the main thread and
cause the same performance problems.
So, number one is avoiding --
avoid blocking the main thread.
You can also use GCD in some
interesting ways to speed up
the launch of your application.
So, number one is avoiding --
avoid blocking the main thread.
You can also use GCD in some
interesting ways to speed up
the launch of your application.
And of course,
if your application happens
to be running on an iPad 2,
you'll automatically take advantage
of the second CPU core there.
So let's look at a somewhat contrived,
but I think typical example.
We have an application that maybe the
user is flipping pages and new pages
of text are appearing on the screen.
And we want to go ahead and once
the user gets to this next page,
prefetch the next page in
case they turn the page again.
So we might do it like this,
the simple way.
We use string with contents of file,
check to make sure that we
actually didn't get an error,
and then take a text field and set its
text to the contents of that string.
Now, what's going to happen if
we do it this way is that
is if the animation of the
page flip is still going,
we need to actually complete layout and
drawing of each frame of the animation
in a very short amount of time.
In order to have smooth 60
frames per second animation,
you only have about 16 milliseconds
to get all that work done.
So if we do the layout
and draw of one frame,
and then we kick off reading
the string in the background,
which might be a huge string we
have to read off the file system.
There might be other file system
I/O going on at the same time.
The frame might be sinking or some other
operations happening in the background.
This might block for a long time.
By the time we get the layout
and draw for the next frame,
we don't have time to finish it,
and we end up dropping the frame.
So what we would like to do is get that
read string off of the main thread and
send it down to a background thread.
That allows the layout and draw
to happen on the main thread and
complete that second frame in time.
Now,
the catch to doing this using multiple
threads is that you can't just do
anything you want in a background.
You can't just do anything
you want in a background.
on the background thread on iOS.
Typically all UI kit work has
to be done on the main thread.
Other frameworks don't work that way.
You can use core animation,
core graphics,
foundation on the background thread.
But with the exception of making your own
UI graphics context and drawing into it,
all other UI kit work has to
be done on the main thread.
So I can't just take
that entire code snippet,
send it into the background,
and then do that set text
in the background thread.
This is not a safe operation in iOS.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going
to take that original code snippet,
and I'm going to get this
expensive string with contents
of file into the background,
but still keep the UI kit work on the
main thread with only two lines of code.
So this first line, dispatch async,
sends the work to a global queue.
This is a concurrent queue that
can actually execute multiple
blocks simultaneously that
does not block the main thread.
So I do my string with
contents of file there.
Then once I have the string back,
I dispatch async back to the main queue.
So just that last line of text
will operate on the main queue,
and I do the set text there.
So this is the way I can do the
expensive work in the background
without blocking the main thread,
keep my animation smooth.
You can also use GCD in some
interesting ways to speed up launch.
Suppose we have a typical scenario
where you've got some work that you
need to kick off at launch time.
Maybe it's going to go off and fetch
some resource from the network or read in
some image files that I'm going to blip
to the screen as soon as they're ready.
So I kick this off at launch time,
maybe an init on an object
that's read in from a nib,
but it doesn't actually have
to be completed at launch time.
In this case,
we have launch time work with some
deferrable work in the middle,
but it's not until all of that is done
that the main run loop can start turning.
No animations are going to happen,
no touch events are going to be received
until that main run loop starts turning.
So we would like to take that
deferrable work and have it not block
the rest of this launch time work.
Now, if I try to do the same thing
I just did a moment ago,
dispatch this deferrable
work to a background queue,
this might help.
But if this really is expensive work...
We can hit CPU contention.
I now have two threads that are
both trying to do CPU intensive
work at the same time.
So while this is likely to
speed up my launch a little bit,
it's not going to get nearly as much
of the benefit as we had expected.
So, back to the drawing board.
What we really want to do is
not do the deferrable work
concurrently with the launch time.
We want to do it after
the launch time work.
So, and this is very counterintuitive,
but from the main thread
that's already operating,
I'm going to dispatch to the main queue.
Now,
this takes advantage of the fact that
the main queue in GCD is actually
drained inside the main run loop.
So, the deferrable work won't
actually happen until the main
run loop has started turning.
So, I dispatch from the main
thread to the main thread.
It just defers the work.
Now,
I'm back to the same problem that I had
before where I'm trying to do this
deferrable work in the main run loop
and my animations might not be smooth.
So,
after I've dispatched to the main queue,
I dispatch again to a background queue.
So, I just use dispatch.
I dispatch twice and now my deferrable
work is neither blocking the launch
time nor blocking the main run loop.
Now, there's a few performance-related
gotchas any time you use GCD that
you need to watch out for.
One of the common ones is having too
many threads servicing too... I'm sorry,
you have too many threads
blocked on too few resources.
So GCD, when you use a concurrent queue,
one of those global queues
that I was using before,
usually just sort of magically
makes the right number of
threads for the situation.
So, for instance,
if you're running on an iPad 2,
we'll make more threads to service
that concurrent queue than if we
were running on an iPhone 3GS,
for example.
So usually we'll just make
the right number of threads.
But suppose I had that example before,
where I'm dispatching a block off
to the background that's going
to go to the file system and read
in some large amount of text.
And maybe I want to
just go ahead... Well,
it's happening in the background anyway.
I'll just go ahead and
prefetch the next 10 pages.
What will happen as soon as
that block hits the file system,
as soon as I get to the file read,
the thread's going to block
when it hits the file system,
and so GCD is going to spawn
another thread to service the next
block in the queue because it's
trying to keep the CPU cores busy.
And pretty soon,
if I've dispatched 10 or 20 of those,
I'm going to have all of
those threads running,
and that's actually going to hurt
the performance of your application
because you don't want too many
threads for the system to handle.
So the way to avoid this,
if the shared resource that you're
blocking on is a network operation,
you can use the NSURL connection
asynchronous methods,
and this will all just happen for you.
You'll get callbacks
when the work is done.
If it's not, if it's not a network,
if it's some other file
system operation or syscall,
you can use a serial queue to
serialize those operations so that
they don't try to happen concurrently,
and GCD does not spawn
new threads for you.
Now, you want to serialize the
minimum possible amount of work.
So this code snippet
would look like this.
You'd have some global serial queue
that you've created just using one
of the dispatch create functions.
You dispatch a sync to
a global file IO queue.
You do your read of the data
in from the file system there.
After you've finished that work
that needs to be serialized,
you dispatch back out to
some concurrent queue.
And then if, say,
you're reading a bunch of files
and doing some operation on them,
you can do that work concurrently,
but you still have the
file system IO serialized.
Now, if you're targeting iOS 5 only,
there's actually a better
solution to this in iOS 5,
and that's to look into
the dispatch IO functions.
But this example that I have here
will work back in iOS 4 as well.
Now, the next couple of GCD gotchas
I want to talk about have to
do with memory use in GCD.
And this first one, retain cycles,
is a particularly subtle problem
that can be very difficult to
figure out what's going on.
So using blocks,
especially if they reference objects,
can cause retain cycles.
So in this example,
we have an object that holds
on to a copy of a block.
Maybe it's planning to
dispatch this block repeatedly,
so it just wants to copy
it to the heap one time.
Or maybe it's going to be sending it
off to a timer or something like that.
So when it's an init function,
it creates the block, and in this case,
the block's going to do
something simple and contrived,
just set my var to six,
and then copy it to the heap.
If you don't copy it to the heap,
the block will go away
after init returns.
Well, in this case,
we actually have a retain cycle created,
because my block owns a copy, I'm sorry,
the object owns a copy of my
block because of the copy.
But my block is referencing my var,
which is a member variable,
so it is actually referencing
the object itself.
So it is implicitly has to retain
self when it gets copied to the heap.
So we have a classic retain cycle.
The object owns a copy of the block,
and the block owns a copy of the object.
This example probably
seems very contrived,
but it's very common to
happen if you're using,
for instance,
the NS timer or NS notification
center functions that take blocks,
and you reference self from in there.
So what we need to do is
cut the reference of the
block back to the object.
And there's a couple of ways to do this.
If you're using the new
automatic reference counting,
you can use a block to do this.
So I'm going to use an underscore
underscore weak variable to replace self.
If you're using iOS 4,
you can use an underscore
underscore block reference.
So in this case, I make an underscore
underscore block id weak self,
which is simply a
non-retaining version of self.
Then in my block, when I reference the
property of weak self,
I'm not going to retain it
because it's a block variable,
and I've cut the link back to the object.
Another memory-related gotcha with
GCD has to do with auto-release pools.
You need to take a lot of care
when you're dispatching away,
especially a loop that's going
to use an auto-released object,
because blocks don't have
implicit auto-release pools.
GCD queues do have auto-release pools,
so there's no danger of your
objects actually being leaked.
But they don't necessarily
drain after every block.
So if you're dispatching
away a bunch of blocks,
and each of those blocks runs
some loop in which it uses a
lot of auto-released objects,
there's not really any way for you
at compile time to know when that
auto-release pool is going to be drained.
So this advice for dealing with this is
pretty much the same advice you would
have for using auto-released objects
anywhere in Cocoa or Cocoa Touch.
You can make your own auto-release
pools inside the block to make sure that
it gets drained when you want it to.
And if you do that,
I strongly encourage you to use the
new at-auto-release syntax instead of
the old NS auto-release pool syntax.
It's a lot faster.
And of course,
don't loop with auto-released objects.
You have the possibility of having
this explosion of auto-released
objects that stick around too long.
One way to get rid of your
auto-released object loop is to
use the dispatch apply function,
which actually takes the loop and
unrolls it into a series of blocks,
each dispatched separately to a
serial queue or concurrent queue.
This doesn't get rid of
the problem entirely,
but at least increases the chance that
the auto-release pool will be drained
often enough that you won't have an
explosion of auto-released objects.
So with that, I'm going to move on to
my second major topic,
which is using memory efficiently in iOS.
Now, as we all know, in iOS 4,
the memory system in the whole
platform changed dramatically
when we got multitasking.
So it used to be that
when your app was running,
you were pretty much
the only game in town.
It might be that mail or music or
something like that was playing.
But for the most part,
you had access to most of the memory
that was available to user space.
In iOS 4,
that changed because we started keeping
suspended apps around in order that the
user could resume them very quickly.
We've got a better
story for this in iOS 5,
and we think we've clearly
identified what our goals are
in using memory in the system.
So there are three primary goals that
we're trying to achieve in this order.
First of all,
we need to protect the system.
You always need to remember that you're
not running your program on a console
where you are the only game in town.
Your phone is, among other things,
a phone.
It needs to still have enough
memory to receive phone calls.
The kernel needs enough
memory that it doesn't panic,
things like that.
So our primary objective is to give the
system enough memory to protect itself.
The second goal, and this really is the
next most important thing,
is to always give the
foreground application enough
memory for great performance.
We want to make sure that
multitasking never interferes with
the performance of the foreground app.
And the third goal, still very important,
is to keep around as many
suspended apps as possible.
It's really a great user experience when
the user can just double-tap the app.
Switch over to another app
and it's instantly there.
It doesn't have to relaunch.
So we want to keep as many of
those around as we can without
sacrificing the system or the
performance of the foreground app.
So how can we work together to make
sure that we have this great experience
keeping these three goals in mind?
Basically,
you want your app to be a good citizen
both when it's in the foreground,
running as the foreground app,
and when it's in the background.
So first of all,
being a good citizen in the
foreground means don't use more
memory than you really need to.
So if you use too much memory,
the first thing that will happen is
that suspended apps will be terminated.
Now that's okay if you really
need -- if your application
really needs that memory.
We'd like to keep as many
of them around as we can.
The second thing that can happen
is that purgeable memory in the
system will actually be evicted,
and that includes code pages.
So if your application is using
more memory than it really needs to,
this can lead to your code
pages being evicted from memory.
And then the next time you get
back to running that code again,
it has to be reloaded from disk.
This will actually hurt the
performance of your app.
And finally, if you use too much,
the Jetson app will actually
be evicted from memory.
The Jetson system will actually
terminate your application even
when it's running in the foreground.
So the main way to avoid this happening,
if you're getting into
really critical situations,
is to watch for memory warnings.
Oh, I forgot my neat graphic here.
Your app will push the other
apps out of the system and then
eventually be terminated itself.
So we've done a lot of work
to make memory warnings in
iOS more effective in iOS 5.
So many developers felt that in iOS 4,
they got memory warnings at times
they didn't really understand.
They seemed sort of spurious,
and if they ignored them,
there weren't always
necessarily bad consequences.
So we've modified the under-the-hood
system for memory warnings in iOS 5
so that you should receive a lot fewer
memory warnings than you used to.
But when you do receive
memory warnings in iOS 5,
it really does mean they are critical.
At the time you receive a memory warning,
the system has already terminated
a lot of the suspended apps
that are in the system.
So the system has already done a lot
of work for you to get the foreground
app all the memory that it needs,
but now the situation
is still looking bad,
and it's your turn to free
up any memory that you can.
Amen.
Now, the API for memory
warnings has not changed.
All the work has been--all the
changes have been under the hood.
So the way you respond to a memory
warning is by implementing the
application didReceiveMemoryWarning
method in your app delegate,
by overriding the didReceiveMemoryWarning
in your UIViewController subclass,
or subscribing to the UI application
didReceiveMemoryWarning notification.
So exactly the same API will work in iOS
4 or iOS 5 to respond to memory warnings.
So what should you do when you get one?
Let's start with what you should not
do when you receive a memory warning.
You should not ask the user to
fix the memory warning for you.
They can't, okay?
If you receive a memory warning,
remember, we have already terminated
most of the suspended apps,
and we will continue, if necessary,
to terminate the rest
of the suspended apps.
If you're asking the user
to quit applications,
they don't even know which apps
are actually suspended because
the app switcher is showing a
most recently used list of apps,
not a list of running apps.
So please, please,
please do not ask the user to respond
to the memory warning for you.
This is your job.
Next, do not try to figure out
if the warning is critical.
I understand why many developers do this,
because memory warnings in
the past seem to be spurious.
Now,
if we're sending you a memory warning,
it is critical.
You need to respond to it.
And linked to that, don't wait to receive
a more serious warning.
There won't be one.
If you don't free enough memory when
you get your first memory warning,
that's your last chance.
You're not going to receive another one,
and the next step is that
your Apple will be terminated.
So you need to do anything
you can at that first warning.
So what you should do is, of course,
free up any memory that
you reasonably can.
That means any regenerable
caches that you have,
any views or images that are not in use,
release them.
Now, I mean it when I say any
memory you reasonably can,
because as I said before,
it's more important to us that
your app have enough memory
for reasonable performance.
So don't free up something
you're going to have to
immediately read back off disk,
you're going to have to regenerate,
you know, don't just panic and evict
everything you possibly can.
But anything that you're not
going to need immediately,
go ahead and free it up,
give it back to the system,
and then we will keep doing
our part to help you even more.
Now,
if you need to serialize out any state,
if, for instance,
there's some state that would
be lost if you free everything,
you want to save it out to disk,
go ahead and do that, but be quick.
At the time you receive a memory warning,
again, it's critical.
If you have another thread that's
continuing to allocate memory,
you may actually get terminated
before you have time.
So be as quick as you can in
responding to these memory warnings.
So that's being a good
citizen in the foreground.
Being a good citizen in the background,
you don't have the option of
responding to memory warnings
because when you're suspended,
you're never going to get them.
Suspended apps don't
receive memory warnings,
so you need to free anything you
can when you get that application
did into background method called.
And you would respond to it
pretty much the same way you
would respond to a memory warning.
Anything that you can regenerate
later when your application resumes,
go ahead and free it now.
Now, the catch to this is that you also
want to return from application did
into background as quickly as possible.
There's a number of things
that the system does to
your app after it completes
application did into background.
One example is that the little
snapshot that you see of
your app when you resume it,
we can't take that snapshot
by API contract until after
you've returned from application
did into your background.
So if you need to do any expensive work,
for instance, to serialize things out
to disk and then free it,
you want to do that in a background task.
And this is actually pretty simple to do.
You call application begin background
task with expiration handler.
And this code snippet, by the way,
is the thread safe way
to do a background task.
In your expiration handler,
this is what's going to fire when,
if your time runs out,
if you've used too much time
trying to run your background task,
you simply set a flag in your
expiration handler saying time is up.
And then you dispatch the actual
work away to a background queue.
You do the work in some kind of loop
where you're periodically checking to
see if you've been canceled or not.
And then at the time,
either when you've completed all the
work that you wanted to do or when
you receive that expiration handler,
then you go ahead and end the
background task and then the
system will suspend your app.
So why is it so important to
free up memory when you're
going into the background?
The reason for that is that the
lower your memory footprint,
the more likely you are to stay
suspended and give the user that
nice resume experience instead of
having to relaunch from scratch.
The critical threshold
here is 16 megabytes.
If your application can get
down to 16 megabytes or less,
we can actually hibernate
your application,
which means we save the
contents of its memory to flash,
and then we can evict it from memory.
So you're no longer taking up
any memory from the system,
and we're much less likely
to have to terminate you.
Now, that doesn't mean that 16 megabytes
is the only thing to watch out for.
If you can get even further below 16
megabytes once you're already there,
well,
then you have less that we have to read
back from flash in order to resume you.
Your resume times are going to be better.
If you can't quite get back to
16 megabytes for whatever reason,
still get as small as you can,
because that'll get less memory
pressure total on the system and
the less chance that we're going
to have to terminate someone,
which, of course, could be you.
Now, there's one exception to this
free everything you can when
you go into the background.
And that is that if resuming your
application would become so expensive
that you might as well relaunch,
well, then there's not much point.
Remember that the whole point of
resume is to be faster than launch.
So there's some cases, for instance,
for very expensive 3D games where
they have so many assets to read
in off of Flash that if they had
to evict all that from memory,
well,
then the resume time becomes terrible.
In those cases, we would recommend, well,
don't even bother freeing all this up.
Because in those cases,
you can hope the user just
switched over to send an
iMessage or something like that,
and it's going to come
right back to your app.
But don't assume that this
applies to your application.
You'll find that most
apps can resume much,
much faster than they can launch,
even after they've freed up all these,
all this regenerable contents.
So that's talking about how to
respond to particular events when
you receive a memory warning or
when you go into the background.
Let's talk about some strategies
for reducing your application's
memory footprint in total.
One issue that many developers
have is with excessive caching.
You really need to be careful
to only cache contents in
memory if you really need to.
Often you might think, well,
I loaded this image in from disk,
that's a potentially expensive operation.
I'm going to go ahead and
hold on to that in memory.
You need to test the performance
of regenerating this stuff before
you decide to cache it in memory.
If you're caching something in
memory because you had to go to
the network to get some asset
and you want to hold on to it,
consider saving it to
the file system instead.
Don't cache it in memory.
And then if you do decide
there's a performance
advantage to caching something,
use the NSCache API,
which I'm going to talk
more about in just a moment.
The worst thing that you can do
as far as your memory footprint
is to cache images in memory.
When an image is drawn into a bitmap
context or displayed to the screen,
we actually have to decode
that image into a bitmap.
That bitmap is four bytes per pixel,
no matter how big the original image was.
And as soon as we've decoded it once,
that bitmap is attached to the
image object and will then persist
for the lifetime of the object.
So if you're putting images into a
cache and they ever get displayed,
you're now holding on to that
entire bitmap until you release it.
So never put UI images or CG images
into a cache unless you have a
very clear and hopefully very
short-term reason for doing so.
Now, if you do decide you need to
use a cache for something,
you should look at the NSCache API,
which is an API that was introduced
in iOS 5 and in Mac OS 10.6.
We've done a lot of work in every
iOS release since to make its
memory performance even better.
So it works basically like
an NSMutable dictionary.
It has a very similar API,
a key value API.
It's thread safe, which is a nice benefit
for ease of coding.
Because of that,
it's a little bit slower and
returns auto-released results.
So all in all,
it seems like it might not be a good
choice compared to NSDictionary.
But it gives you some great
characteristics with respect to memory.
First of all,
the NSCache automatically evicts its
contents when you get a memory warning.
You don't have to do it.
We'll do it for you.
It can automatically grow and shrink
based on other system memory conditions.
So things that, as an app developer,
you don't even have access to.
The NSCache will adjust its total size
based on the system memory conditions.
And when it goes into the background,
it automatically evicts its contents.
So again,
this isn't something you have to worry
about when you go into the background.
And it uses least recently used eviction,
which can be very difficult
to code on your own.
It will automatically do it.
So we'll keep track of which objects
you've used more recently and won't
evict those as quickly as the older ones.
Now, of course,
that means that the contents someday
will get evicted from memory.
And so you have to check them.
When you do the lookup into the NSCache,
you have to check to make sure that
you actually got an object back.
Now, alongside NSCache,
you can use another API called
NSPurgableData and get some
even more good behavior.
NSPurgableData is an NSData subclass
that contains data that is actually
marked purgable in the system,
and the system can discard
automatically if it needs the data.
So imagine a case where you've read
in some file or done some expensive
computation where you'd like to
keep that stuff around in memory,
but you could regenerate
it if you needed to,
and it fits into an NSData object.
So if the system needs that memory,
it will just take it away.
And NSPurgableData provides
APIs where you can lock down the
memory when you're actually using it,
and then let the system know
when you're finished with it,
and it's free to evict it if it needs to.
If you put in this purgeable
data objects into an NSCache,
you get some really great extra behavior.
NSCache will not evict purgeable
data objects as aggressively because,
for example,
when an NSCache sees that we're
going into the background,
its default is to just purge everything
because there won't be another chance.
But if it's purgeable data objects,
the cache can say, "Well,
if the system really needs this memory,
it will come and take it,
so I don't have to evict this object
from memory myself." And then hopefully,
when the application resumes,
it might still be around.
NSCache will also automatically
evict the purgeable data objects when
their backing stores are released.
So you don't have to check
to see the purgeable data,
see that its backing
store is still around.
If NSCache gives it back to you,
that means that it hasn't been purged.
You can get this behavior from NSCache
with your own classes by adopting
the NSDiscardableContent protocol,
which gives the same begin
content access and end content
access that NSPurgeableData has.
And the last thing is how to figure out
what the footprint of your application is
and how to bring it down at debug time.
And the first way to do that, of course,
is the allocations
instrument in Instruments,
which is probably everyone's
favorite memory tracking tool.
It's got some great
debugging information.
It can give you call stacks for
where that memory was allocated.
It can give you retain counts
so you can see why objects,
you know,
Cocoa objects are sticking around
longer than you expected them to.
What it does not do,
and I'm going to talk more
about this in a moment,
is show you memory that your app
is indirectly responsible for.
So it shows objects that you
created directly or were created
directly by those objects,
but not, for example,
the bitmap stores for the decoded images.
So here's what it looks like.
And you can see, hopefully, there we go,
the total usage of your application,
the total directly allocated
memory in your application is
given by the live bytes here.
And then, of course,
it's divided up into the different
types of memory that were allocated.
So in this case,
I have an application whose live
bytes are only 2.28 megabytes,
which should be pretty safe.
Be sure also to check out the
Flip View on the Info Panel.
There it is.
There's some great options for
getting more data out of this,
in particular,
the Record Reference Counts checkbox.
This is what you need to check
in order--before you take a
trace in order to see the retains
and releases on your objects,
which can--excuse me,
can be a great tool in tracking
why your memory is not going away.
But in addition to the
allocations object tool,
don't forget about the
VM tracker instrument,
which shows the total
application memory footprint.
So this shows not only what your
application is directly responsible for,
but also other memory that was
indirectly allocated on your behalf,
like those bitmaps.
And what you want to look for
in the VM tracker is the dirty
memory usage of your app.
This is what's actually going
to cause your app to get
terminated if it grows too high.
Unfortunately,
it doesn't have call stacks and
other useful debugging info.
But it's still a great tool for figuring
out why your application's memory usage
is higher than you had thought it was.
So in this case,
this is a trace I took on
exactly the same application,
which only had 2.28
megabytes of live bytes.
But in this case,
I have 118 megabytes of dirty memory.
Now, where's that coming from?
Well, it's in this memory tag 70.
And here's the big secret.
Memory tag 70 means image IO memory.
This is usually images that
have been decoded and we're
holding onto these bitmaps.
So any time you see memory tag 70
appearing with a lot of dirty memory,
check to see if you've got images
that you're sticking around that
you weren't expecting to have.
So with that, I'm going to turn it
over to the second half.
Ben, there he is.
I'm an engineer on the
iOS Performance team,
and I'm going to talk about view
and animation performance today.
First, we're going to start
with some fundamentals.
If your view overrides UIViewDrawRect,
it draws.
And we're going to talk about how
those views draw and when they draw.
If you're using UIImage views,
they display images.
And we're going to talk about when these
images get deserialized into memory.
Next, we're going to talk about some
useful effects for your images.
You can crop, stretch,
and tile images efficiently if you know
how to do them using a CA layer effects.
And finally,
we'll talk about some performance
guidelines for smooth animations.
So first let's talk about
the view drawing cycle.
In this example,
we're going to create a UI label.
UI label actually overrides DrawRect
to actually draw the text in the label.
And in this example,
we're going to set the
background color to white,
and we're going to set the text to hello.
And notice that nothing
expensive has happened yet.
All we've done is created the
UI view and its backing CA layer.
We haven't done any drawing yet,
but because the view implements DrawRect,
we will mark the view as
dirty using set needs display
automatically at view creation time.
But again,
nothing expensive has happened yet.
We've just created a view
and its backing layer.
No drawing yet.
Eventually, we'll probably add this
label to the view hierarchy.
And you may not know this,
but every single core animation
property change happens in the
context of a CA transaction.
You can create your own
transaction and commit them.
Most of you probably don't.
So we actually create a transaction at
the beginning of the run loop implicitly,
and at the end of the run loop,
we'll implicitly commit
those transactions.
So let's take a look at what
happens at the end of the run
loop when the transaction commits.
We're going to notice that there's
a dirty flag on this UI label
when the transaction commits.
And we're going to first create a
backing store for that CA layer.
And a backing store is just a CG context.
It's a place for you to draw into.
So that's what you get back
when you call UIGraphics
getCurrentContext in your drawRect.
Next,
we'll fill the backing store with the
background color you set for your view,
in this case, white.
Then we'll actually call
the view's drawRect,
in this case, UILabelDrawRect,
which will draw the text into the view.
And finally,
we'll clear the dirty flag on the label,
and we can use that contents,
that backing store,
to composite the label
onto the view hierarchy.
On subsequent draws,
the process is pretty similar.
Let's say we set the text to hello--oh,
sorry, to buy,
and we call sizeToFit to resize our view.
When we call setText,
we'll immediately change
the text property to buy.
That's going to implicitly
call setNeedsDisplay,
which will mark the view as dirty,
so that it will redraw.
Notice that we can call setNeedsDisplay
as many times as we want,
but it has no effect.
It just sets the dirty flag
if it's not already dirty.
In this case, it's already dirty,
so it has no effect.
So setNeedsDisplay doesn't
cause an eager draw.
Again, at the end of the run loop,
when the transaction commits,
because we called size to fit,
the size of the backing
store has to change.
The size of our view has changed,
so the size of the backing store changes.
We're going to create a new
backing store at the correct size.
We're going to fill it again with
the correct background color,
in this case white.
And then we're going to call
UILabelDrawRec to actually render
the text into that backing store.
And then we'll clear the
dirty flag on the view.
So why are we telling you this?
Well, the first reason is so that you
understand what you see in Time Profiler.
Time Profiler is probably the best
tool we have for solving a large
class of performance problems.
And it really helps to know what
you're looking at in Time Profiler.
So in this case,
you'll see at the root of the call stack,
in this case I've
un-inverted the call stack,
which is not the default
view in Time Profiler,
by the way.
So at the root of the call stack,
you'll see this CF run loop observer,
which calls a CA transaction commit.
And this is the implicit CA transaction
commit that I was talking about earlier.
That's how we actually implement that.
So all your drawing work is going
to happen under this call stack,
under this CA transaction
commit call stack.
That's why it's there.
Next,
you'll actually see some drawing work.
And that's all under CA layer display.
You'll actually see
this UI rect fill call.
That's us filling the view with
the background color of the view.
And then you'll also see, in this case,
we spent 96 milliseconds
in UI label draw rect.
So if you see a lot of time
spent in your draw rect,
you're going to see it
here in Time Profile.
And finally, you'll see that we call
CA render new bitmap to actually
create the backing store.
So if you see a lot of time
spent creating new bitmap,
in this context,
it probably means you're going through
a lot of resize and redraw cycles.
And so really examine your code.
Are you changing the size
of your views too often?
Are you redrawing calling
set needs display too often?
That's what to look for if you
see a lot of time spent there.
The other reason why we're telling
you about these backing stores is
they have this sort of mysterious tag
in VM tracker called core animation.
That core animation tag is
actually view backing store.
So in this case, in this example,
I've unchecked the core animation tag.
I've checked the coalesce
regions option in VM tracker,
and there is 1,000
core animation regions.
So what does that mean?
That means I have 1,000 CA layers live
in my app that have been added to a view
hierarchy at some point and have drawn.
So 1,000 CA layers or 1,000 UI views
that have drawn at some point.
That's probably not what
you want in your app.
1,000 views at a time is a lot.
So if you see an accumulation in the
core animation region in VM tracker,
those are view backing stores,
and you probably have
leaked or abandoned views.
And these backing stores
can be really large.
For example, a full screen backing
store on an iPhone 4,
that's 2.4 megabytes.
So it can pile up really quickly
if you abandon your views.
Let's talk about some
view drawing guidelines.
The first is to mark your views opaque.
Opaque views take a lot less work
for the compositor to composite.
By default, UI views are opaque,
but you can override that behavior by,
for example, in this case,
I've set a background color
with the alpha of 0.5.
So we're going to assume that
you actually want your view to
be non-opaque when you set a
background color with a non-1 alpha,
and we'll override the opaque flag
and set it to no behind your back.
So, you know,
just be aware that just because the
view starts as opaque doesn't mean
that it's going to end as opaque,
even if you don't call setOpake no.
And also note that UIView set opaque
on an image view has no effect.
The opaqueness of an image is
determined by whether the image
itself has an alpha channel.
And I'll be going over that
again and again several times.
The next guideline is to
flatten view hierarchies.
You've probably heard this many,
many times.
And you might wonder yourself why.
And the reason why is because
all these backing stores,
there's a per backing store
cost for allocating them,
deallocating them, synchronizing them,
compositing them.
And so a lot of times you can
get better scrolling performance,
for example,
if you flatten your view hierarchies.
You have to balance this against the cost
of when you flatten your view hierarchy,
you're probably making
one larger coalesced view.
So you have to balance those costs.
And you have to profile
what you're doing.
One example that can be kind of useful
here that not everyone knows about,
in this example, I've got this UI table
view cell content view.
And I've got three labels, a from label,
subject label, and message label.
But they're not actually
in my view hierarchy.
I'm just using them as sort of model
objects to encapsulate the drawing state.
And draw text and racked on
UI label lets you just use the
label to draw into another view.
So this can be a really useful tool.
And then the last one
is the view hierarchy.
So this is a really useful way of
using labels without adding the
labels to your view hierarchy if you
want to flatten your view hierarchy.
And since those labels have never
been added to view hierarchy,
they won't have a backing
store associated with them,
as we've talked about earlier.
Just one caution,
don't call drawRect yourself.
Notice that I'm calling drawText in Rect.
This is a method that
we expose on UILabel.
And other model objects
have similar methods,
such as UIImageDraw in Rect.
Another view drawing guideline
is to understand the difference
between view layout and view display.
Every once in a while we go to the
labs and we see something like this.
You call setNeedsDisplay
in your layout subviews,
and this is probably not going
to do what you'd expect it to do.
Because layout is about
positioning and sizing subviews,
and display on your own view
is about redrawing yourself.
And in general,
your view doesn't need to redraw just
because it moved around a few subviews.
So this is probably not
the right coding style.
If you actually want your view
to redraw when its size changes,
we actually have a flag for that.
That's UIViewContentModeRedraw.
So use that if you want your view to
implicitly redraw if its size changes.
And finally, the last guideline is
to simply draw less.
We have a set needs display in Rect.
This will mark a
sub-rectangle of your view,
dirty, and that will be passed as the
first parameter to draw Rect.
And the idea is then to try to draw
only into that dirty Rect so you can
reuse what you've drawn in the past.
Now, of course, this only helps if your
view draws multiple times.
Another thing that you can do is
use the CA Layer properties to crop,
stretch, and tile images,
which can replace a lot of
simple draw Rect implementations.
And we're going to go over
that in just a few minutes.
Next, let's talk about the image display
cycle if you use UI image views.
This is going to look really similar to
the view drawing cycle I just went over.
In this example,
we're going to create a UI image.
A UI image is an immutable object
that is backed by a CG image.
We're going to set that UI image
as the image on an image view.
And behind your back,
what that does is sets the
contents of the backing CA Layer to
the CG image in the UI image.
So notice a couple things.
First, creating the UI image
and the CG image is fast.
All we do when you create a
UI image or a CG image is we
read out some header metadata to
figure out how big the image is.
We don't do actually--we don't actually
do any decompression at this point.
And also notice that creating the
UI image view and the CA Layer is fast.
So we haven't really done
anything expensive yet.
In particular,
if you just go ahead and create a
ton of UI images upfront in your app,
you're not really saving yourself any
work because all you're doing is reading
a bunch of headers of several files.
Again, eventually, we'll add this image
view to a view hierarchy.
And we're going to notice that a
new view was added to view hierarchy
at the end of the transaction,
generally at the end of the run loop.
At the end of the run loop,
because this image view is new,
we're going to notice that its
contents points to a CG image
that has not been deserialized,
hasn't been decompressed.
So, for example,
say the CG image is actually a JPEG,
at some point,
we actually have to decompress
that JPEG into a bitmap.
And that bitmap can be really big.
It's generally the width of the
bitmap--it's generally the width of
the image times the height of the image
times four bytes because we use 32-bit
RGBA as our general image format.
So the key thing to notice here
is that that bitmap is hanging
off the CG image instance.
So if you hold on to your UI image or
CG image instance for a very long time,
you may very well be holding on to
multi-megabyte bitmaps in memory.
And this is a really,
really quick way to get your
app to be able to do that.
So, if you want to get your app
killed for low memory reasons.
Note that UIImageImageNamed
actually holds on to the UIImage
instance behind your back,
but we do try to manage
this cache efficiently.
So it will automatically free the
cache if the system is low on memory,
also if your app goes
into the background.
But in general,
you should be really wary about holding
on to CG image or UIImage instance
past when you actually need them.
Again, why are we telling you about this?
Well, first,
we want you to understand what
you're seeing in TimeProfiler.
The call that you'll see for the
deserialization of the image where we
actually call the JPEG decompression
or the ping decompression algorithm
is going to be CG image provider
copy image block set with options
or something along those lines,
something with an image block set.
And if you expand that call stack,
you'll see actually time spent in ping
decompression or JPEG decompression.
So you see a lot of time spent here.
Really make sure that your
images are the correct size.
For example,
if you're displaying an image
into a view that's 600 by 400,
you should not be putting a 12
megapixel image into deserializing
12 megapixel image because
that takes a really long time.
The other reason why you want to make
sure your images are properly sized is,
again, they take a lot of memory.
So to take that previous
example of a 12 megapixel JPEG,
it might be only 4 megabytes on disk.
But at 4 bytes per pixel,
12 million pixels,
that's 48 million bytes,
about 48 megabytes.
And that's--this, again,
shows up as memory tag 70 in
VM tracker as Dan pointed out.
So if you see a lot of--if you see a lot
of--if you see a lot of--if you see a lot
of memory tag 70 memory in VM tracker,
that probably means you're holding
on to CG image or UI image instances
past when you should be or you
just have some really large images.
And we've seen some really big,
really popular apps do this where
they'll just deserialize a huge bitmap,
deserialize a huge
JPEG like 15 megapixels,
20 megapixels and put
them into a tiny view.
And this takes a lot of time and
takes--uses up a lot of memory
and it's likely to get your app
killed because of low memory.
So really, really important to really,
really watch out for this.
A related topic is the
animated images API.
We have a couple APIs for this.
UI image view set animation images,
for example,
has been available since 2.0.
The good thing about them is they
use CA keyframe animation behind your
back to animate the layer contents.
So this guarantees smooth frame rate.
The bad thing is to guarantee
the smooth frame rate,
we have to go deserialize
all the images at once.
So this is really only appropriate
for small animations like spinners.
What happens if you use it for, say,
a slideshow,
a full-screen image slideshow?
In this case,
we've got 10 full-screen images.
Each of them takes 2.4
megabytes of memory.
So we end up with about 24 megabytes
of bitmap memory all at once allocated.
That's probably not what you were
going for when you made the slideshow.
As an alternative,
you can use a CA DisplayLink as
a timer to set the image on
the image view on a callback.
And the good thing about this is now
you're de-serializing the images one
at a time rather than all at once.
The bad part about that, of course,
is because you're de-serializing
them one at a time,
your frame rate is no longer guaranteed.
Notice in this example that we're using
image with contents of file or image
with data rather than image named.
Because, as I said before,
image named does cache the image
instance behind your back and tries to
manage that global cache of image named
calls and free them on low memory.
But in this case,
we really just want to use the image
and get rid of it as fast as possible.
So in those cases,
use image with contents of file or
image with data so that you don't
get this implicit caching behavior.
Let's go over a few
image display guidelines.
Again,
remove alpha channels from your images.
If you have a ping that looks opaque,
really open it up in
Photoshop or preview.
Use that get info and make sure
it has no alpha channel because
that is what determines whether
the image view is opaque or not.
Size the images appropriately.
As we were talking about
with the example earlier,
if you have a 12 megapixel
image going to 600 by 400,
that's a huge no-no.
It should be a 600 by 400 image
going to a 600 by 400 view or
even a smaller image than that.
And maybe for whatever reason,
maybe you're pulling these
images down from a server.
You just have no control over it.
What do you do in that case?
Well, we do have APIs that down sample
images efficiently in memory.
That's the CG image source
create thumbnail index API.
This is in the image IO framework
and it's really easy to use.
As you can see here, you just specify,
in this case,
a max pixel size limit of 1024
and it will create a thumbnail
that's a maximum of 1024 in width
or height from the source image.
Finally, as I've been talking about,
all the image deserialization is lazy.
And this is usually what you want.
We want to be lazy if
we can get away with it.
But sometimes if you profile
your app and you actually really,
really just want to force the
image to deserialize right now,
you have to create your own image
context to create a CG context
and draw the image into the image.
And you can do that by using
the image as a reference.
So, you can create your own image into
that CG context as in this example.
And really use this with care
because this is a real easy way
to blow up your memory footprint.
But if you know what you're doing,
you've profiled it in time profile,
and you've determined that the only
way you can get good performance is
by eagerly deserializing your image,
this is available for you.
Next, let's talk about cropping,
stretching, and tiling images.
Not too many people know about this
contents-rect property on CLayer because
there is no equivalent UI view property
that shadows this contents-rect property,
but it's really useful
for panorama effects.
What it does is it
lets you crop an image.
So in this case,
we're going to set the contents-rect
first to that small rectangle
and then to this full rectangle.
And the result of this animation is this
Ken Burns effect that looks like this.
And it's really fluid on all
devices that support iOS 5.
We're just going to deserialize the
image once and then per frame we'll
update these four floating point
texture coordinates over and over.
So it's really fast.
If you're going to use this on
devices that don't support iOS 5,
you're going to have to try this out
because it may not be as efficient on the
older devices that don't support iOS 5.
We have a similar property,
content center on CLayer and content
stretch on UI view that lets you
pick a region of an image to stretch.
So in this case,
we've got this small chat bubble
and we're going to pick this
little rectangle to stretch.
And this lets you animate or just
change the size of an image to be much
bigger than the actual image size.
So it's really useful,
not just for animations,
but just for minimizing
the size of your assets.
And this can replace a lot of
basic draw-rect implementations.
Again, this is efficient on all iOS
devices that support iOS 5.
If you're going to use this on older
devices that don't support iOS 5,
you're going to want to try to profile
and change the size of the image.
So this is really useful.
And this is going to be a great
way to try this out on your own.
So you can just go ahead and
try this out on your own.
And you can also use this on your own.
You can also use this on your own.
You can also use this on your own
and just try this out on your own.
And this is really useful.
And this is really useful
for your own iOS 5.
Next, let's talk about tiling images.
Tiled images are all over iOS 5.
For example, the linens in springboard
and the pattern background,
the pinstripe pattern background
on group table view cells.
The way you create these
tiled images is UI color,
color with pattern image.
And then you can use that color to fill
into a CG context or you can just set the
color as the background color for a view.
Now, we've made a lot of improvements
to tiled images in iOS 5.
But to take advantage
of those improvements,
you need to make sure the width
and the height of your tiled
images are a power of two.
So for example, 512 by 1,
good tiled image size.
256 by 256 is a good image size.
Just make sure the width and height
are a power of two to get the optimal
performance out of your tiled images.
We've sort of combined these
tiled and stretched images
into a single API in iOS 5.
And this is the UI image.
So the UI image is a sizeable
image with cap insets API.
And you can just use this naively and
you can get pretty good performance.
But I just want to go over some
guidelines on getting the maximum
performance out of this API.
So the first thing to notice is we
have a 31 by 31 pixel image here.
And if I set the interior
region to be just 1 by 1 pixels,
I'm guaranteed that that 1 by 1
pixel region will be stretched.
And that's the maximum performance
you'll get out of this API.
So if you're using resizable
image with cap insets,
try to make sure that you're
not going to get the maximum
performance out of this API.
Make sure that one--that if you
can stretch the interior region,
make sure it's one point by one point.
Now, if you don't specify one point
by one point interior region,
what we'll actually do is
tile the interior region.
And tiling is a little less
efficient than stretching.
So it'll work.
It might be about 20 percent slower and
it takes--uses up a little more memory.
So resizable images can
also be used for tiling.
Again, the guidelines for tiling
resizable images are the
same as with pattern images.
If you can specify the edge insets
to be zero and the size--the width
and height to be powers of two,
that's going to be the maximum
speed that you'll get out
of a tiled resizable image.
Otherwise,
you're going to go down a generalized
path that may be about 20 percent
slower and use a little more memory.
So to summarize,
if you're using resizable
image with cap insets,
try to make sure the interior
region is one point by one point
if you just want stretching.
That always is fast.
I didn't go over this,
but if you just want to set the
interior region to say one by N and
your image view is N points high,
that also is efficient.
And if you want the
most efficient tiling,
make sure your edge insets are zero and
the width and height are power of two.
Finally,
let's go over some performance guidelines
for smooth animation performance.
And the first guideline which
you've probably heard over the
years is to reduce blending.
And the reason why this is
important is the GPU can only
perform so many pixel operations
per frame at 60 frames per second.
And a non-opaque pixel means
that we have to blend that pixel
against all the pixels below it,
which increases the number
of pixel operations.
So you really want to make sure
every--as much of your view hierarchy
is green as possible and when you
use this color blended layers option.
So green means opaque,
red means non-opaque,
the redder it is means more
and more layers of non-opaque.
So in this case,
we've got about one layer of opaque
views and about three quarters
of a layer of non-opaque views.
So we've got about three quarters of a
screen's worth of overdraw in this case.
And you really want to be
minimizing overdraw to be,
say, less than one and a half screens
at most for good performance.
So you want to be minimizing
overdraw to be less than one and
a half screens at most for good
performance on all iOS devices.
How do you make your views opaque?
Well, if you override draw rect,
then make sure that your
UI view is marked opaque.
It is by default,
but as I went over earlier,
if you change certain properties
like setting a background
color with non-one alpha,
we're going to flip that opaque
property for you behind your back.
[Transcript missing]